This is the 6pack-mini-HOWTO, written by

Andreas Könsgen DG3KQ
Internet: ajk@comnets.uni-bremen.de
AMPR-net: dg3kq@db0pra.ampr.org
AX.25:    dg3kq@db0ach.#nrw.deu.eu

Last update: April 7, 1998

1. What is 6pack, and what are the advantages to KISS?

6pack is a transmission protocol for data exchange between the PC and
the TNC over a serial line. It can be used as an alternative to KISS.

6pack has two major advantages:
- The PC is given full control over the radio
  channel. Special control data is exchanged between the PC and the TNC so
  that the PC knows at any time if the TNC is receiving data, if a TNC
  buffer underrun or overrun has occurred, if the PTT is
  set and so on. This control data is processed at a higher priority than
  normal data, so a data stream can be interrupted at any time to issue an
  important event. This helps to improve the channel access and timing 
  algorithms as everything is computed in the PC. It would even be possible 
  to experiment with something completely different from the known CSMA and 
  DAMA channel access methods.
  This kind of real-time control is especially important to supply several
  TNCs that are connected between each other and the PC by a daisy chain
  (however, this feature is not supported yet by the Linux 6pack driver).

- Each packet transferred over the serial line is supplied with a checksum,
  so it is easy to detect errors due to problems on the serial line.
  Received packets that are corrupt are not passed on to the AX.25 layer.
  Damaged packets that the TNC has received from the PC are not transmitted.

More details about 6pack are described in the file 6pack.ps that is located
in the doc directory of the AX.25 utilities package.

2. Who has developed the 6pack protocol?

The 6pack protocol has been developed by Ekki Plicht DF4OR, Henning Rech
DF9IC and Gunter Jost DK7WJ. A driver for 6pack, written by Gunter Jost and
Matthias Welwarsky DG2FEF, comes along with the PC version of FlexNet.
They have also written a firmware for TNCs to perform the 6pack
protocol (see se